---
title: "Psychosocial development across the life span"
date: "2015-11-17"
---

Erik Erikson 的 Psychosocial development across the life span 把人这一生的心理发展分为八个阶段，其中每一个阶段都有自己的矛盾和对峙状态，只有矛盾顺利解决，人的心理才能向下一阶段健康发展。

The Erikson life-stage virtues, in order of the eight stages in which they may be acquired, are:

1. **Hope, Basic trust vs. basic mistrust**—This stage covers the period of infancy, 0–18 months, which is the most fundamental stage of life. Whether the baby develops basic trust or basic mistrust is not merely a matter of nurture. It is multi-faceted and has strong social components. It depends on the quality of the maternal relationship. The mother carries out and reflects her inner perceptions of trustworthiness, a sense of personal meaning, etc. on the child. An important part of this stage is providing stable and constant care of the infant. This helps the child develop trust that can transition into relationships other than parental. Additionally, children develop trust in others to support them.[\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35) If successful in this, the baby develops a sense of trust, which "forms the basis in the child for a sense of identity." Failure to develop this trust will result in a feeling of fear and a sense that the world is inconsistent and unpredictable.
2. **Will, Autonomy vs. shame**—Covers early childhood around 1–3 years old. Introduces the concept of autonomy vs. shame and doubt. The child begins to discover the beginnings of his or her independence, and parents must facilitate the child's sense of doing basic tasks "all by himself/herself." Discouragement can lead to the child doubting his or her efficacy. During this stage the child is usually trying to master toilet training. Additionally, the child discovers his talents or abilities, and it is important to ensure the child is able to explore those activities. Erikson states it is essential to allow the children freedom in exploration but also create an environment welcoming of failures. Therefore, the parent should not punish or reprimand the child for failing at the task. Shame and doubt occurs when the child feels incompetent in ability to complete task and survive. Will is achieved with success of the stage. Children successful in this stage will have "self-control without a loss of self-esteem." [\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35)
3. **Purpose, Initiative vs. guilt**—Preschool / 3–5 years. Does the child have the ability to do things on her own, such as dress herself? Children in this stage are interacting with peers, and creating their own games and activities. If allowed to make these decisions, the child will develop confidence in her ability to lead others. If the child is not allowed to make certain decisions the sense of guilt develops. Guilt in this stage is characterized by a sense of being a burden to others, and the child will therefore usually present herself as a follower. Additionally, the child is asking many questions to build knowledge of the world. If the questions earn responses that are critical and condescending, the child will also develop feelings of guilt. Success in this stage leads to the virtue of purpose, which is the normal balance between the two extremes.[\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35)
4. **[Competence](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skill), Industry vs. inferiority**—School-age / 6–11 years. Child comparing self-worth to others (such as in a classroom environment). Child can recognize major disparities in personal abilities relative to other children. Erikson places some emphasis on the teacher, who should ensure that children do not feel inferior. During this stage the child's friend group increases in importance in his life. Often during this stage the child will try to prove competency with things rewarded in society, and also develop satisfaction with his abilities. Encouraging the child increases feelings of adequacy and competency in ability to reach goals. Restriction from teachers or parents leads to doubt, questioning, and reluctance in abilities and therefore may not reach full capabilities. Competence, the virtue of this stage, is developed when a healthy balance between the two extremes is reached.[\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35)
5. **[Fidelity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fidelity), Identity vs. role confusion**—Adolescent / 12–18 years. Questioning of self. Who am I, how do I fit in? Where am I going in life? The adolescent is exploring and seeking for her own unique identity. This is done by looking at personal beliefs, goals, and values. The morality of the individual is also explored and developed.[\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35) Erikson believes that if the parents allow the child to explore, she will determine her own identity. If, however, the parents continually push her to conform to their views, the teen will face identity confusion. The teen is also looking towards the future in terms of employment, relationships, and families. Learning the roles she provides in society is essential since the teen begins to develop the desire to fit in to society. Fidelity is characterized by the ability to commit to others and acceptance of others even with differences. Identity crisis is the result of role confusion and can cause the adolescent to try out different lifestyles.[\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35)
6. **[Love](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Love), Intimacy vs. isolation**—This is the first stage of adult development. This development usually happens during young adulthood, which is between the ages of 18 to 40. Dating, marriage, family and friendships are important during the stage in their life. This is due to the increase in the growth of intimate relationships with others.[\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35) By successfully forming loving relationships with other people, individuals are able to experience love and intimacy.They also feel safety, care, and commitment in these relationships.[\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35) Furthermore, if individuals are able to successfully resolve the crisis of intimacy versus isolation, they are able to achieve the virtue of love.[\[36\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-36) Those who fail to form lasting relationships may feel isolated and alone.
7. **Care, Generativity vs. stagnation**—The second stage of adulthood happens between the ages of 40-65. During this time people are normally settled in their lives and know what is important to them. A person is either making progress in his career or treading lightly in his career and unsure if this is what he wants to do for the rest of his working life. Also during this time, if a person is enjoying raising his children and participating in activities, that gives him a sense of purpose. This is one way of contributing to society along with productivity at work and involvement in community activities and organizations.[\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35) If a person is not comfortable with the way his life is progressing, he's usually regretful about the decisions that he has made in the past and feels a sense of uselessness.
8. **[Wisdom](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wisdom), Ego integrity vs. despair**—This stage affects the age group of 65 and on. During this time an individual has reached the last chapter in her life and retirement is approaching or has already taken place. Ego-integrity means the acceptance of life in its fullness: the victories and the defeats, what was accomplished and what was not accomplished. Wisdom is the result of successfully accomplishing this final developmental task. Wisdom is defined as "informed and detached concern for life itself in the face of death itself."[\[37\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-FOOTNOTEEriksonErikson199761-37) Having a guilty conscience about the past or failing to accomplish important goals will eventually lead to depression and hopelessness. Achieving the virtue of the stage involves the feeling of living a successful life.[\[35\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-:1-35)
9. For the **Ninth Stage** see [Erikson's stages of psychosocial development § Ninth Stage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erikson%27s_stages_of_psychosocial_development#Ninth_stage).

Favorable outcomes of each stage are sometimes known as _virtues_, a term used in the context of Erikson's work as it is applied to medicine, meaning "potencies". These virtues are also interpreted to be the same as "strengths", which are considered inherent in the individual life cycle and in the sequence of generations.[\[38\]](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_Erikson#cite_note-38) Erikson's research suggests that each individual must learn how to hold both extremes of each specific life-stage challenge in tension with one another, not rejecting one end of the tension or the other. Only when both extremes in a life-stage challenge are understood and accepted as both required and useful, can the optimal virtue for that stage surface. Thus, 'trust' and 'mis-trust' must both be understood and accepted, in order for realistic 'hope' to emerge as a viable solution at the first stage. Similarly, 'integrity' and 'despair' must both be understood and embraced, in order for actionable 'wisdom' to emerge as a viable solution at the last stage.
